---
title: Blackjack and the Python Dojo
description: A coding dojo is a safe place to deliberately practice and develop
your coding skills
tags: python

---

"A coding dojo is a safe place to deliberately practice and develop your coding
skills."

I went to my first
[London Python Dojo](http://ldnpydojo.eventwax.com/london-python-code-dojo-season-2-episode-2)
last night and had a better time than I expected. I know a little
[Python](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Python_(programming_language)) (just
enough to hurt myself). I was intrigued by this event where the idea was to
learn together rather than just share knowledge.

The evening started off with beer and pizza, thanks to our hosts
[Fry-IT](http://www.fry-it.com/), and then moved on to two short
presentations. The first was on FluidDb and the second was something to do with
creating Python packages. Yes, both were over my head.

After that there was a short discussion about a problem to attempt. A blackjack
game was suggested and we split into 5 groups of four and had a little under an
hour to solve this. I didn't have much confidence that we could do it. One
person sat at a laptop, we spent about 5 minutes deciding on the approach to use
and then the typing started.

I wouldn't have been able to write the code as quickly as it was being knocked
out, but I could understand it. And although we were all talking there were no
arguments and we pushed through and got a working program done (with one easily
fixed bug) just in time. Although not strictly [pair programming](Pair
programming), I can see why that approach can generate quality code quickly.

But that wasn't it. Each team demoed their solution and showed their code. This
was just as useful as writing the program in the first place. Because we had all
been thinking about the same problem it was easy to understand the different
approaches that were presented. There were class based solutions as well as
functional ones (some had tests!) and we even saw the major development
environments - Macs running vi, Linux machines with Emacs, and Notepad++ on
Windows. We also saw a solution using Python3.

I enjoyed this more than I expected. It was nice to be able to contribute even
though I'm not that experienced with Python, and I learned plenty just by
watching and asking questions. It was a welcoming bunch and I will certainly be
going again. And this time I'll pay more attention to people's names.

I don't think anybody used version control, though...
